.TH FLAPPY-VERIFY 1 "2026" "flappy 0.1.0" "FlucidOS Package Manager"
.SH NAME
flappy\-verify \- verify installed package integrity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flappy verify
.br
.B flappy clean
.RI [ \-\-all ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS flappy verify
Checks that every file recorded in the installed package
database exists on disk and is a regular file.
.PP
For each inconsistency found, one line is printed to stdout:
.PP
.RS 4
.BI missing:\ path\  (owned\ by\  package )
.br
.BI invalid:\ path\  (expected\ file)
.RE
.PP
If a package has no files recorded in the database, it is
reported as:
.PP
.RS 4
.BI "missing files: " package " (no files registered)"
.RE
.PP
If the system is consistent, prints:
.PP
.RS 4
[INFO] system is consistent
.RE
.PP
.B flappy verify
never modifies the database or the filesystem.
It only reads and reports.
.SS flappy clean
Removes the contents of the staging directory
.IR /var/cache/flappy/staging/ .
Staging directories are normally cleaned automatically after
a successful install. Leftover staging directories indicate
a failed or interrupted install.
.PP
With
.BR \-\-all ,
also removes all cached package archives from
.IR /var/cache/flappy/packages/ .
.PP
After running
.BR "flappy clean \-\-all" ,
any package whose archive was in the cache will need to be
re-downloaded on the next install. This does not affect
installed packages, only the download cache.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
.RI ( verify )
System is consistent. All recorded files exist and are
regular files.
.TP
.B 1
.RI ( verify )
One or more inconsistencies found. Details printed to stdout.
.TP
.B 0
.RI ( clean )
Cleanup succeeded.
.TP
.B 1
.RI ( clean )
One or more files could not be removed.
.SH RECOVERY
When
.B flappy verify
reports missing files for package
.IR foo :
.PP
.RS 4
.B sudo flappy remove foo
.br
.B sudo flappy install foo
.RE
.PP
Note that
.B flappy remove
will succeed even if the files are missing from disk, since
it deletes whatever is present and skips files that do not
exist.
.SH NOTES
.B flappy verify
does not check file contents or permissions. It only checks
existence and type. It does not detect files that have been
modified since installation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flappy (1),
.BR flappy-install (1),
.BR flappy-remove (1)
