.TH FLAPPY 1 "2026" "flappy 0.1.0" "FlucidOS Package Manager"
.SH NAME
flappy \- package manager for FlucidOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flappy
.I command
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B flappy
is a minimal, deterministic binary package manager for FlucidOS.
It manages package installation, removal, dependency tracking,
repository synchronisation, and system integrity verification.
.PP
All system-modifying commands require root privileges.
Query commands do not.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Core
.TP
.B flappy help
Display command summary.
.TP
.B flappy version
Display flappy version.
.TP
.B flappy \-\-init\-db
Initialise the installed package database at
.IR /var/lib/flappy/flappy.db .
Run once after installation.
.SS Query
.TP
.BI flappy\ list
List all installed packages, one per line in
.I name version
format, sorted alphabetically.
.TP
.BI flappy\ info\  package
Show name, version, and install type (explicit or dependency)
for an installed package.
.TP
.BI flappy\ files\  package
List all files owned by an installed package, one per line,
sorted alphabetically.
.TP
.BI flappy\ owns\  path
Show which package owns the file at
.IR path .
.TP
.BI flappy\ inspect\  file
Read and display metadata from a package archive file
.RI ( .pkg.tar.zst ).
Does not require the package to be installed.
.TP
.BI flappy\ depends\  package
List direct dependencies of an installed package.
Empty output means no dependencies.
.TP
.BI flappy\ rdepends\  package
List packages that directly depend on
.IR package .
Empty output means nothing depends on it.
.TP
.B flappy orphans
List installed packages that were installed as dependencies
and have no reverse dependencies.
These can be safely removed with
.BR "flappy autoremove" .
.SS Repository
.TP
.BI flappy\ update\  [url]
Download
.I repo.db
from the repository, verify its SHA256 checksum, validate
its schema and package metadata, then install it atomically.
If
.I url
is not provided, uses the default repository URL compiled into
the binary.
.TP
.BI flappy\ search\  [term]
Search the repository database for packages whose names begin
with
.IR term .
If
.I term
is omitted, lists all available packages.
.TP
.B flappy upgrade
Compare installed package versions against the repository.
Prints packages that have newer versions available.
This is a dry-run only \(em it does not install anything.
.SS Installation
.TP
.BI flappy\ install\  package
Install a package from the repository. The full pipeline:
guard (root check) \(-> lookup (repo.db) \(-> download \(->
SHA256 verify \(-> conflict check \(-> extract to staging \(->
atomic DB commit + file copy.
.PP
.RS
A failed install always leaves the system unchanged.
.RE
.SS Removal
.TP
.BI flappy\ remove\  package
Remove an installed package. Files under
.I /etc
are preserved. Refuses if other packages depend on this one.
.TP
.BI flappy\ purge\  package
Remove an installed package including all config files under
.IR /etc .
Refuses if other packages depend on this one.
.TP
.BI "flappy purge \-\-force " package
Force removal even if other packages depend on this one.
The dependent packages may break. This action is always logged
at ERROR level in
.IR /var/log/flappy.log .
.TP
.B flappy autoremove
Remove all installed packages that were installed as
dependencies and have no reverse dependencies.
Uses safe removal semantics (preserves config files).
.SS Maintenance
.TP
.B flappy verify
Check that every file recorded in the installed database
exists on disk and is a regular file. Exits 0 if the system
is consistent, 1 if any inconsistency is found. Never
modifies anything.
.TP
.B flappy clean
Remove all contents of the staging directory
.RI ( /var/cache/flappy/staging/ ).
.TP
.B flappy clean \-\-all
Remove the staging directory contents and all cached package
files in
.IR /var/cache/flappy/packages/ .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/flappy/flappy.db
Installed package database (SQLite, schema version 2).
.TP
.I /var/lib/flappy/repo.db
Repository metadata cache (SQLite, schema version 1).
.TP
.I /var/cache/flappy/packages/
Downloaded package cache.
.TP
.I /var/cache/flappy/staging/
Package extraction staging area.
.TP
.I /var/log/flappy.log
Operation log. All mutations logged at INFO level.
Forced removals logged at ERROR level.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Operation failed. A reason is always printed to stderr.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error. Missing or invalid arguments.
.TP
.B 127
Unknown command.
.SH SECURITY
Flappy verifies the integrity of the repository database and
every downloaded package using SHA256 checksums. Package
archives are validated for path safety before extraction:
absolute paths, path traversal (
.IR .. ),
and writes to forbidden roots (
.IR /proc ,
.IR /dev ,
.IR /sys ,
.IR /home ,
.IR /root )
are rejected.
.PP
The installed database file is owned by root with mode 0600.
The log file is owned by root with mode 0600.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/flucidOS/flappy/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Siddharthan T V
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flappy-install (1),
.BR flappy-remove (1),
.BR flappy-verify (1),
.BR sqlite3 (1),
.BR tar (1)
