.TH FLAPPY-REMOVE 1 "2026" "flappy 0.1.0" "FlucidOS Package Manager"
.SH NAME
flappy\-remove, flappy\-purge \- remove installed packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flappy remove
.I package
.br
.B flappy purge
.I package
.br
.B flappy purge \-\-force
.I package
.br
.B flappy autoremove
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS flappy remove
Removes an installed package from the system.
Files under
.I /etc
are preserved. The package record and file list are removed
from the installed database.
.PP
Refuses if any installed package depends on
.IR package .
.SS flappy purge
Removes an installed package including all files under
.IR /etc .
The package record and file list are removed from the
installed database.
.PP
Refuses if any installed package depends on
.IR package .
.SS flappy purge \-\-force
Removes an installed package regardless of reverse
dependencies. Dependent packages may become broken.
.PP
This action is always logged at ERROR level in
.I /var/log/flappy.log
even if the operation succeeds. The format is:
.PP
.RS 4
[ERROR] forced purge of
.I package
which is required by
.I dependent
.RE
.SS flappy autoremove
Removes all installed packages that satisfy both of the
following conditions:
.PP
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
The package was installed as a dependency (not explicitly).
.IP \(bu 2
No currently installed package depends on it.
.RE
.PP
Uses safe removal semantics: config files under
.I /etc
are preserved.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Package removed successfully, or no orphans to remove.
.TP
.B 1
Package not installed; reverse dependencies exist (without
.BR \-\-force );
one or more files could not be deleted; database record
removal failed.
.TP
.B 2
No package name provided.
.SH DATABASE CONSISTENCY
When a removal fails partway through file deletion, the
database record is preserved. This means
.B flappy verify
will report the remaining files as present and owned,
which is accurate. The operator can then decide whether
to retry removal or investigate manually.
.PP
Flappy never removes the database record until all file
deletions succeed.
.SH EXAMPLES
Safe removal (keep config files):
.PP
.RS 4
.B sudo flappy remove nginx
.RE
.PP
Full removal including config files:
.PP
.RS 4
.B sudo flappy purge nginx
.RE
.PP
Force removal when a dependent exists:
.PP
.RS 4
.B sudo flappy purge \-\-force openssl
.RE
.PP
Remove unused dependencies:
.PP
.RS 4
.B sudo flappy autoremove
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flappy (1),
.BR flappy-install (1),
.BR flappy-verify (1)
