.TH FLAPPY-INSTALL 1 "2026" "flappy 0.1.0" "FlucidOS Package Manager"
.SH NAME
flappy\-install \- install a package from the repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flappy install
.I package
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B flappy install
downloads, verifies, and installs a binary package from the
configured repository.
.PP
The install pipeline executes the following steps in order:
.PP
.RS 4
.IP 1. 3
.B Root check.
The invoking process must have effective UID 0.
.IP 2. 3
.B Repository lookup.
The package name is looked up in
.I /var/lib/flappy/repo.db
to retrieve the archive filename and expected SHA256 checksum.
.IP 3. 3
.B Download.
The archive is downloaded to
.IR /var/cache/flappy/packages/ .
If the archive is already present in the cache, the download
is skipped.
.IP 4. 3
.B Integrity verification.
The SHA256 checksum of the downloaded archive is computed and
compared against the value from
.IR repo.db .
If they do not match, the installation is aborted and the
cached file is left for inspection.
.IP 5. 3
.B Conflict detection.
The package archive's
.I .FILES
manifest is read and each path is checked against the
installed database. If any path is already owned by a
different package, installation is aborted before any
files are written.
.IP 6. 3
.B Extraction.
The archive is extracted to a staging directory at
.IR /var/cache/flappy/staging/<archive>.stage/ .
Metadata files
.RI ( .PKGINFO ,
.IR .FILES )
are not extracted to the staging directory.
Each path is validated before extraction: absolute paths,
path traversal, and writes outside allowed roots are rejected.
.IP 7. 3
.B Atomic commit.
The package record and file list are inserted into the
installed database within a
.B BEGIN IMMEDIATE
transaction. Files are then copied from staging to the
real filesystem. If any copy fails, the database transaction
is rolled back and all written files are removed.
.RE
.PP
The staging directory is removed after a successful commit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Package installed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Installation failed. Possible reasons:
not root; package not found in repository; download failed;
checksum mismatch; file conflict; extraction error;
package already installed; database commit failed.
A specific reason is always printed to stderr.
.TP
.B 2
No package name provided.
.SH ATOMICITY
A failed install always leaves the system unchanged.
This invariant holds at every step. The package is never
partially installed.
.SH EXAMPLES
Install a package:
.PP
.RS 4
.B sudo flappy install hello
.RE
.PP
Install after clearing the cache to force a fresh download:
.PP
.RS 4
.B sudo flappy clean \-\-all
.br
.B sudo flappy install hello
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/flappy/repo.db
Repository metadata. Must exist before install.
Run
.B flappy update
if missing.
.TP
.I /var/cache/flappy/packages/
Downloaded package cache.
.TP
.I /var/cache/flappy/staging/
Extraction staging area. Cleaned after successful install.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flappy (1),
.BR flappy-remove (1),
.BR flappy-verify (1)
